Analyzing cyber threats and controls

The Cybersecurity Risk Management Program starts with sourcing threat intelligence. 
Let's have a look at some of the sources of threat intelligence. A useful catalog of
threats can be found at Appendix E to the NIST Special Publication SP 800-30. 
This catalog provides representative examples of threat events expressed as 
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures or TTPs. Another very useful source of TTPs 
is the MITRE ATT&CK site, which is used in MITRE's cybersecurity resiliency 
framework. Veris provides an open community threat database, which can be used 
to support risk analysis. ThreatStream offers an open source cyber intelligence 
blog, which reports on contemporary activities and threat actors. There are a 
number of good sources of specific threat reports which provide detailed 
information on threat actors, threat techniques, and target vulnerabilities. 
Here we see a report from BAE Systems Applied Intelligence on a vulnerable 
application called Mackeeper that can be exploited to attack macOS systems. 
There are four possible treatments once an assessment has identified the risk. 
Risk acceptance where the risk is within the business's appetite. Risk avoidance 
where it's better to stop doing that line of business than take the risk. Risk 
transfer where a third party takes the risk, such as insurance to cover risk, 
should it eventuate. And risk mitigation where controls are implemented to reduce 
risk. Risk mitigation and the protection of business outcomes which they provide, 
means implementing controls in the form of cybersecurity policies, procedures, 
and technical solutions. There are four key types of control that can be applied, 
and it's generally recommended that two or more are used together to achieve 
defense in-depth. The first is deterrent controls. These reduce the threat. 
An example of this is incarceration, which deters would be criminals from 
carrying out their attacks. Preventative controls are designed to stop the 
attack from succeeding by not allowing it to get at an asset to exploit a 
vulnerability. A firewall is one such preventative control, blocking protocols 
that might be used as attack vectors. Detective controls are used to detect that 
an attack has taken place. A burglar alarm is a typical detective control. 
Finally, corrective controls are used to reduce the impact of an incident. 
A good example of this being recovery from data backups. The NIST Cybersecurity 
Framework presents corrective controls as the respond and recover functional 
controls.

