Understanding the basics of cyber risk

Risk is an essential part of doing business, whether it's taking a risk on a 
merger or acquisition, taking a risk that purchasing new equipment will be a 
cost effective investment, or whether there's sufficient plant protection to 
avoid injuries to workers. Management needs to understand their level of risk
exposure and make sure that it's within their risk appetite. Cybersecurity is, 
at its heart, the management of risk related to internet connected businesses. 
This includes the threats of hackers and malicious software entering from the 
internet, the vulnerabilities of internet facing IT systems, and the attack 
countermeasures or controls, all of which affect how successful the business 
will be in meeting its desired outcomes. A standard approach to managing risk 
has been developed by the National Institute of Standards in Technology, 
and its application is described in Special Publication 800-30, Guide 
for Conducting Risk Assessments. The International Standards Organization 
also provides guidance with its ISO 27005 Information Security Risk Management 
publication. While there are minor terminology differences, the intent of both 
documents is the same. Risk starts with a threat event, which must be analyzed 
to determine the likelihood that the event will occur. This is done by considering 
the likely threat actors, their capabilities, and their resources. The intent or 
motivation needs to be considered. What is it that drives this threat actor to 
want to mount an attack? An attacker will only attack if the results outweigh 
the costs of attacking, and that depends on the value of the target to the 
threat actor. This could be financial gain, obtaining intelligence, disrupting 
services, or just peer recognition. The next thing to think about is the set of 
vulnerabilities in the information and processing assets: the databases, 
work stations, servers, and networks which this event can exploit to cause 
damage. For instance, a data center in the basement of a building may be 
vulnerable to a flood event. A website may have a software vulnerability which 
can be exploited. A server without an uninterruptable power supply would be 
vulnerable to a power outage. However, not all vulnerabilities are equal. A 
flood may be catastrophic, with the whole data center out of action for weeks, 
whereas an attack which exploits a website flaw may just be a nuisance. The next 
thing to consider is the impact to the business of an event. This is typically 
done by carrying out a business impact assessment to determine what systems will 
be affected, how this flows on to business processes, and the cost of service 
degradation or failure to meet critical levels of performance. Being able to 
describe a security event as a business impact is a powerful way of gaining 
the attention and the respect of the business, and being able to get a well 
balanced business decision on what to do about the threat. Controls may have 
put in place to protect the assets, and their effectiveness needs to be considered 
for each of the feasible threat scenarios. This will then allow calculation of the 
overall risk.

