Adopting the NIST Cybersecurity Framework

The second component of the NIST cybersecurity framework is the framework profile. 
This is used to align business outcomes and cybersecurity activities. Providing a 
view of risks and a development plan to breach the two. The third and final 
component of the NIST cybersecurity framework is a maturity model for cybersecurity 
known as the implementation tiers. The basic level of cybersecurity and maturity 
is the partial implementation tier. This is characterized by it's prize risk 
management being somewhat adhocan reactive where cybersecurity activities aren't 
based on risk objectives or business outcomes. And where there's little external 
collaboration. The next level of maturity risk management practices are formalized 
but may not be adapted across the enterprise. There's informal sharing of 
cybersecurity information internally but not externally. The third tier of 
maturity, repeatable, is where risk management is formalized and mandated as 
policy. And processes exist to respond to changes in risk. Collaboration and 
information sharing exists both internally and externally. The highest maturity 
level, adaptive, extends the third level with the awareness and agility to apply 
continuous changes to cybersecurity activities. As a result of changes to assets, 
threat, and vulnerabilities. When adopting the cybersecurity framework for an 
organization NIST recommends establishing two profiles. The first should represent 
the current state of cybersecurity as assessed against the subset of 
enterprise-specific activities that have been selected as being required. 
This is what cybersecurity looks like now. The second should be the target 
state of cyber security. Set as the acceptable level of risk against each of 
the enterprise-specific activities. A security plan of prioritized projects can 
then be defined to close the gap between the current and target state framework 
profiles. For an organization that's starting up its cybersecurity program, there 
are some key actions required to take advantage of the cyber security framework. 
The first is to identify the key business outcomes, then understand the threats and 
vulnerabilities to those outcomes, create a profile, conduct a risk assessment, 
decide on the target profile, determine, analyze and prioritize the gaps to create 
the action plan, and establish and execute a program to implement the plan.

