Understanding the NIST Cybersecurity Framework

The inclusion of cyberspace into national critical infrastructures was formally recognized by all nations at the Third Global Conference on Cyberspace, 
held in Seoul in 2013. With the publication of the Seoul framework for a commitment to open and secure cyberspace, it states: The global and open nature of 
the Internet is a driving force in accelerating progress towards development. Governments, business, organizations and individual owners and users of 
cyberspace must assume responsibility for, and take steps to enhance, the security of their information technologies." In response to this, in 2014, the 
U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology issued the framework for improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity. The NIST cybersecurity 
framework has now become the de facto standard for cybersecurity. Let's take a look at it. The NIST Cybersecurity Framework is an action-oriented approach 
to security and consists of three elements. The Framework Core, the Framework Profile, and the Framework Implementation Tiers. The Framework Core provides 
a set of activities to achieve cybersecurity, described in the five areas of Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover. Each of these activities is 
decomposed into a total of 23 Categories of security activities. For example, we can see that the Detect group decomposes into the three Categories of 
Anomalies and Events, Security Continuous Monitoring and Detention Processes. Each category is further decomposed into a set of controls. For example, 
the Detection Processes Category is broken down into five sub-categories, Roles and responsibilities, Compliant with requirements, Activities are tested, 
Detection Information is communicated, and Continuous improvement. The NIST cybersecurity framework doesn't introduce its own set of controls, it provides 
a higher-level framework which can be used to develop a contemporary cybersecurity profile for an organization, but it relies on existing control 
frameworks for its implementation, COBIT, ISA, otherwise known as IEC 62443, ISO 27001 and NIST SP 800-53.

