The Orange Book: Early concepts in computer security:

Green book for passowrds and Red book for networks

The era of trusted computing started in the 1980s with the publication of a series of books on the IT security requirements 
for the United States Department of Defense. These books were known as the "Rainbow Series" of books. The best known book in the 
"Rainbow Series" is the "Orange Book" which describes the security design of a computer that can be trusted to handle both unclassified 
and classified information, known as a multilevel secure or trusted computer. The "Orange Book" provided the paradigm for information 
security for the next decade. And the approach is still relevant today and can be seen in recent U.S. thinking on tailored trustworthy 
spaces. The "Orange Book" provides the technical criteria which are needed for the security design and subsequent security evaluation 
of the hardware, firmware, and application software of the computer. It introduces four key concepts in information security. A reference 
monitor which mediates access to system resources. A formal security model for reading and writing information. The idea of a trusted 
computing base as a subsystem containing all the security code. And the testing required to achieve various levels of assurance. The 
reference monitor concept is an essential element of any system that provides multilevel secure computing facilities and controls. The 
reference monitor enforces access controls between subjects and objects of the system. The subject may be a user or a program module, 
and the object may be a data file or a restricted system function. I'll use the more common term user, rather than subject. The 
reference monitor has three essential characteristics. The reference validation mechanism must be tamper proof. The reference 
validation mechanism must always be invoked. And the reference validation mechanism must be small enough to be completely analyzed 
and tested. The "Orange Book" introduces the Bell-LaPadula scheme for managing multilevel information flows. Using this scheme the 
book presents two approaches to security. Discretionary access control is used for applying security within the same classification 
of information to provide a means of restricting information access on a need-to-know basis. It requires an access control list to 
be maintained by an administrator which indicates what objects each user can have access to. This is the normal folder and file 
control scheme we use today. Mandatory access control is the Bell-LaPadula scheme in which each user holds a certain level of 
access rights or clearance and an object is labeled at a certain level of sensitivity. The security labels which define levels of 
sensitivity in the "Orange Book" include restricted, confidential, secret, and top secret. Mandatory access control has two rules. 
The first rule is the simple security rule which states that a user at a certain clearance level can't read anything which has a 
label at a higher sensitivity level which by definition they do not have access to. The second rule is the star security rule which 
states that a user at a certain clearance level cannot write down to a file which is labeled at a lower level as this may expose sensitive 
information to users not cleared to access it. The heart of a trusted computer system is its trusted computing base which contains all of 
the elements of the system responsible for supporting the security policy and supporting the isolation of objects on which the protection 
is based. The bounds of the TCB are known as the security perimeter. The TCB includes hardware, firmware, and software critical to protection. 
It must be designed and implemented such that nothing outside the trusted computing base is sensitive or relevant to managing security. A TCB 
should be as simple as possible consistent with the functions it has to perform in order to enable adequate testing. The final and probably 
most important part of the "Orange Book" is the classification scheme it introduces for evaluating assurance of systems. In short the scheme 
provides for four levels of assurance. Within each level there are one or more tiers. The levels are D1 Minimal Protection, C1 to C2 
Discretionary Protection, B1 to B3 Mandatory Protection, and A1 Verified Protection.
